**What is a network?**
>connecting two or more devices to share the information and services

**Protocols?**
>is the rules that governs how devices should be communicate with each other

**Network Reference Model?**
* >OSI-open system interconnection.
* >DOD -Department of Defense(TCP/IP)

**Network types?**
* >Lan -Under a single administration or the infrastructure for connecting the resources inside a building                
* >WAN -Two or more Lans connecting together to form a WAN or Two different adminstration               
* >MAN - Connecting different locations or geographic area               
* >SAN (Storage area network)- Provide high-speed , lossless connectivity to the data                
* >VPN - (Virtual Private Network) - used to send data securely in an unsecure or public network

**Network Artitechture**

**Host**
* >A device that is connected in the network can provide resources to the node of the network and also assigned with a valid address.                 
* >Client- Request data                       
* >Server- Send requeated data to client                                
    * >disadv-Single point of failure(can be avoided using redundancy in the server layer)               
* >Peer- Send and Request data                               
    *-Pose security problems since the data are spread across devices               
**Mainframe/terminal**                               
* thin client protocols are                                                               
 * RDP(remote desktop protocol) and  ICA(Independent Computer Architecture)

WAN Connection TypesWANs are generally grouped into three separateconnection types:•Point-to-Point technologies•Circuit-switched technologies• Packet-switched technologies 

\Circuit SwithcingMessage switch Packet switchApproachno store and forwardStore and forwardStore and forwardConnectionConnectionconnectionlessmay b connected or connectionlessPathdedicated pathno dedicatedno dedicateddata rateConstantvariableVariablefollowing pathsame path for entire transmissiondiff route for diff packetssame path for VCI and independent path for Datagram approachBandwidthfixed fixed Dynamic Examples of Packet switched technologyFrame-Relay• X25

OSI MODEL:1984                Interoperating b/wn products of diff manufacturers pose chalengeWhy are we going for layered approach                Proven standard Switching:                Circuit switching                Message switching                Packet switching UpperLayer are 765        App layer :7o  provides Interface between the user ,application and the networko  eg : web browser, email cliento  =the user interact with application which in turn converted into a protocol and serves the specific functionalityo  Eg: FTP,http,pop3,smtpo  Varity of functions:\§ identifies communication partners§ Determines the resource availability§ Synchronizes communication.o  It wont interact with any other layer above but the below presentation layer Presentation Layer:6o  Controls the formatting and syntax of the user application.o  ensures Data from the sending application understood by the receiving application.o  Eg:img,audios,videos and texto  If two devices doesnt support the same formatting ,presentation layer provides the converstion or translation functionalityo  Additionally, it provides encryption and decryption Session  layer:5§ Establish,maintaining and terminating the connection§ Session communication/Transmission modes·        Simplex·        Half duplex·        Full duplex                Lower Layer:4321Transport that are happening in this layer is responsible for end-to-end communication Transport Layer:4                End to END                -reliable transfer of data                Ensuring data receiving in the destination is error free and in order                Segmentation and sequencing                Acknowledgements                Flow control(Windowing) –Data transfer rate is negotiated to prevent congestionTwo Categories                Connection oriented -TCP                                More reliable                                Upon data lost , data can be resent                                Connection is established after a 3 way handshake                Connection less oriented –UDPTCP/UDP – Sliding window mechanism                                                Network Layer:3                Responsibl for Sending data to dissimilar network / send data across network                Responsible for Logical addressing -provides a unique address that identifies both the host, and the network that host exists on.Routing                -determines the best path to a particular destination network, and then routes data accordingly               Protocols are :IP and IPX                                IPV4,IPV6-X.25 -1.56kbbsHop to hopin computer networking, a hop is one portion of the path between source and destination. Data packets pass through bridges, routers and gateways on the way. Each time packets are passed to the next device, a hop occurs.TTL Is used for loop avoidance.  The main purpose of the router are– Route selection– Packet forwarding– Packet filtering Data Link Layer :2               Responsible to send data within a same network 2 sublayers                LLc(Logical Link control)Serves as an intermediary between physical link and all higher layer protocolsresponsible for identifying Network layer protocols and then encapsulating them and controls error checking and frame synchronization.                Additionally Error control and flow control                MAC(Media acess control)                Control the access to physical medium                CSMA/CD-Higher layer data into frames, this is called framing or encapsulation.- hardware addresses contain no mechanism for differentiating one network from another, and can only identify a host within a network.-Frame relay-1.54mbps-ATM-Ethernet-FDDI The three main functions of Switch 1. Address learning – Learns the MAC address from the frame source MAC field2. Forward/filter decisions – Make the decision based on the learned MAC address3. Loop avoidance – Switch redundant path make unavoidable loop. Spanning Tree protocolis the key to avoid the Loop in redundant path. Node to Node deliveryNode:In communication networks, a node (Latin nodus, 'knot') is either a connection point, a redistribution point, or a communication endpoint (e.g. data terminal equipment). The definition of a node depends on thenetwork and protocol layer Physical layer :1Controls signaling and transferring of raw bits into the physical medium·        It defines transmission mode i.e. simplex, half duplex, full duplex.·        It defines the network topology as bus, mesh, or ring being some of the most common. -NIC card                Network DevicesHubs and repeaters(Layer 1)Switches and Bridges(Layer 2) Routers(layer 3) Encapsulation: As data is passed from the user application down the virtual layers of the OSI model, each layer adds a header (and sometimes a trailer) containing protocol information specific to that layer. These headers are called Protocol Data Units (PDUs), and the process of adding these headers is called encapsulation. Network Topology • Bus • Star • Ring • Full or partial mesh Network DevicesHubs and repeaters(Layer 1) – 1 broadcast domain and 1 collision domainA collision domain is simply defined as any physical segment where a collision can occurA broadcast domain is a logical segmentation of a network, dictating how far a broadcast (or multicast) frame can propagate.Hubs provide no intelligent forwardinghubs will always forward every frame out every port, excluding the port originating the frame.Switches and Bridges(Layer 2) – each port has 1 collision domain and by whole has 1 broadcast domain·        High port density for switches than bridges·        A switch behaves much like a hub when first powered on. The switch will flood every frame, including unicasts, out every port but the originating port. The switch will then build the MAC-address table by examining the source MAC address of each frame·        A switch is in a perpetual state of learning. However, as the MAC address table becomes populated, the flooding of frames will decrease, allowing the switch to perform more efficient forwarding decisions.·        ASIC(Application specific integrated circuits) for making intelligent forwarding decisions  Multilayer switch(referring to any switch that forwards traffic at layers higher than Layer-2) &Routers(layer 3)Routers build routing tables to perform forwarding decisions, which contain the following:• The destination network and subnet mask • The next hop router to get to the destination network • Routing metrics and Administrative Distance The routing table is concerned with two types of Layer-3 protocols: • Routed protocols - assigns logical addressing to devices, and routes packets between networks. Examples include IP and IPX.• Routing protocols - dynamically builds the information in routing tables. Examples include RIP, EIGRP, and OSPF.               Each individual interface on a router belongs to its own collision domain. Thus, like switches, routers create more collision domains, which results in fewer collisions.As a rule, a router will never forward broadcasts from one network to another network (unless, of course, you explicitly configure it to).Traditionally, a router was required to copy each individual packet to its buffers, and perform a route-table lookup. Each packet consumed CPU cycles as it was forwarded by the router, resulting in latency. Thus, routing was generally considered slower than switching.switching functions were typically performed in hardware, and routing functions were typically performed in software. Consider the above diagram. Remember that: • Routers separate broadcast and collision domains. • Switches separate collision domains. • Hubs belong to only one collision domain. • Switches and hubs both only belong to one broadcast domain.   TCP and UDPThe combination of the IP address and port number (identifying both the host and service) is referred to as a socket, and is written out as follows:192.168.60.125:4430-1023-Well known ports1024 – 49151- Registrered Ports49152-65535- dynamic ports- A client initiating a connection will randomly choose a port in this range as its source port (for some operating systems, the dynamic range starts at 1024 and higher). TCP establish connetionSys A send Syn to  SYS BSys b replies Syn+ACK to  sys ASys A send back ACK to  sys b to establish the connection TCP connection Establishment states:ClosedListenSyn-sentSyn-receivedEstablished  TCP connection Terminiation states:EstablishedFina-wait 1Close-waitFin-wait 2Last_ackTime_waitClosed   Connections are identified by the sockets of both the source and destination host, and data specific to each connection is maintained in a Transmission Control Block (TCB) TCP employs a sliding window mechanism. Bytes in a sliding window fall into one of four categories:• Bytes that have already been sent and acknowledged.• Bytes that have been sent, but not acknowledged.• Bytes that have not yet been sent, but the receiving host is ready for.• Bytes that have not yet been sent, and the receiving host is not ready for. TCP header flagsPSH –push and URG –Urgent flagEventhough the TCP window cant handle the data both of the above flags used to prioritize the dataRST – Reset FlagTCP utilizes the Reset message, using the RST flag, to address half-open connections.• URG (Urgent) – prioritizes specified traffic. • ACK (Acknowledgment) – acknowledges a SYN or receipt of data.• PSH (Push) – forces an immediate send even if window is not full.• RST (Reset) – forcefully terminates an improper connection.• SYN (Synchronize) – initiates a connection. • FIN (Finish) – gracefully terminates a connection when there is further data to send.  CongestionNetwork congestion in data networking and queueing theory is the reduced quality of service that occurs when a network node is carrying more data than it can handle. Typical effects include queueing delay, packet loss or the blocking of new connections.  UDP       UDP, above all, is simple. It provides no three-way handshake, no flow control, no sequencing, and no acknowledgment of data receipt. UDP essentially forwards the segment and takes no further interest.-connectionlessLess latency compared to TCP latency is measured by sending a packet that is returned to the sender; the round-trip time is considered the latency.   Router Components     DNS: Domain Name system :port 53Conversion / Translation of IP address to human readable names and vice versa How dns worksWhen request on google.com It search in the local host cacheIf the local host cache doesn’t have a entry, it will be forwarded to local  host file.If the local host file doesn’t have a entry., it will be forwarded to dns root serverDns root server then will follow the hierarchy of domain resolution and reply back to the request. DNS uses TCP for Zone Transfer over Port: 53It is necessary to maintain a consistent DNS database between DNS Servers.The connection is established between the DNS Server to transfer the zone data and Source and Destination DNS Servers DNS uses UDP for DNS Queries over Port: 53A client computer will always send a DNS Query using UDP Protocol over Port 53. If a client computer does not get response from a DNS Server, it must re-transmit the DNS Query using the TCP after 3-5 seconds of interval. Dns Resolving the human readable name into IP and vice versa. There are two common methods for implementing name resolution:•A static fileon each host on the network, containing all the name-toaddresstranslations (examples include the HOSTS/LMHOSTS files).•A centralized serverthat all hosts on the network connect to forname resolution.   Dynamic DNSallows DNS to be integrated with Dynamic HostConfiguration Protocol (DHCP). When DHCP hands out an IP address lease,it will automatically update the DNS entry for that host on the DNS server.       DHCP(Dynamic host control protocol) :port 67 Server and Port 68 for client and for Port 69 is for TFTp  DORA Process DHCP serverslease out IP addresses to DHCP clients, for a specific periodof time. There are four steps to this DHCP process:•When a DHCP client first boots up, it broadcasts aDHCPDiscovermessage, searching for a DHCP server.•If a DHCP server exists on the local segment, it will respond with aDHCPOffer,containing the “offered” IP address, subnet mask, etc.•Once the client receives the offer, it will respond with aDHCPRequest, indicating that it will accept the offered protocolinformation.•Finally, the server responds with aDHCPACK, acknowledging theclients acceptance of offered protocol information.  By default, DHCP leases an address for8 days. Once 50% of the leaseexpires, the client will try to renew the lease with thesame DHCP server. SNMP Port 161(TCP)  and port 162(SNMP trap for both tcp and udp) 161-polling162-traps Used to retrival of metrics-Eg: whats my cpu usage, how much is my ram occupied, Polling(requesting for the information) - Once in a while server request router for the information of devics to a router and router send backs the informationPolling happens using OID(object ids)MIB-Management information base , basically a DNS for OIDs  Trap – on a unfortunate event in the router it is having an option of sending a trap.                Router saying server hey something happened in me. Kindly check – its based on the security level Syntax: snmp-server community cisco ro(read only)or rw(read/wirte)                Snmp enable traps                  Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an Internet-standard protocol for collecting and organizing information about managed devices on IPnetworks and for modifying that information to change device behavior. Devices that typically support SNMP include routers, switches, servers, workstations, printers, modem racks and more.[1]  Syslog:Useful for Event managementControls on an unfortunate event occurs based on the log level it will capture the logs and can b further used for troubleshooting purpose. Ports 514-used for system logging(UDP)Port 601-reliable syslog service(TCP)Port 6514 – reliable syslog over TLS(TCP)Port 10514- TLS enabled syslog (TCP/UDP)   Configuring syslogs>Config terminal>logging 192.168.1.2(server address where the syslog gets captured)>logging trap 5(log level) or >logging trap notificational(in words) SMTP:PoRT 25 FOR BOTH TCP AND UDP   Arcsight:https://youtu.be/_Fvx_nI6E4c  IP addressingClass A : 1.0.0.0 to 127.255.255.255Class b :128 to 191Class c: 192 to 223 -Class d: 224 to 239 – Multicast purpose or group addressClass e: 240 to 255 –Experimental use Binary to decimal -2^0 to 2^7Decimal to binary – Divide the number by 2 and have the reminders has binary number, - L divide method Network address is the first address in the block – it defines itself to the rest of the internetLast address of the block is called broadcast address of that blockNetIds=All 1’sHost Id’s =All 0’s Default mask:All net id will be 0 and all host id will be 1Default mask will be given based on the class Masking concept:Identify the first address of the block or network addressAn address in the block with AND operation gives the first address of  the block Eg23.56.7.91255.0.0.0_______23.0.0.0(first address/network address) Limited broadcast address255.255.255.255Router blocks the limited broadcast packet SubnettingWell utilization of address space   Subnet mask:All net ids and subnet ids will be 1 and host id will be 0         Security information and event management  In the field of computer security, security information and event management (SIEM) software products and services combine security information management (SIM) and security event management (SEM). They provide real-time analysis of security alerts generated by network hardware and applications. Hp ArcsightIBM Qradar     Jitter is defined as a variation in the delay of received packets. VLana switch can belogically segmentedinto separate broadcast domains, usingVirtual LANs (or VLANs).  Each VLAN represents a unique broadcast domain:•Traffic between devices within thesame VLAN is switched.•Traffic between devices indifferent VLANs requires a Layer-3device to communicate.   Route command>Enable –(to move to privilege mode)>in privilege mode we can ran all show command>config terminal(after reaching this mode we actually configure the device)>show ip route(to display routing table)>show ip access-list(to display access list)>show xlate(to display the pat configuration)   NAT-Network Address Translation The rapid growth of the Internet resulted in a shortage of available IPv4addresses. In response, a specific subset of the IPv4 address space wasdesignated asprivate, to temporarily alleviate this problem.Apublic address can be routed on the Internet. Thus, devices that must beInternet-accessible must be configured with (orreachable by) publicaddresses. Allocation of public addresses is governed by the InternetAssigned Numbers Authority (IANA).Aprivate address is intended for internal use within a home ororganization, and can be freely used by anyone. However, private addressescannever be routedon the Internet. In fact, Internet routers are configured toimmediately drop traffic with private addresses NAT can also perform public-to-publicaddress translation, as well as private-to-private address translation. Private address range class:           CISCO FIREWALL four main administrative access modes: Monitor mode :password recovery – to access this mode press break/escUnprivileged mode -Privileged modeConfigure mode  Running Config – Volatile and stored in the RAM- to save the current running config, we need to type ‘write memory’ or copy run startStartup config -  non-volatile  Security levels 0-100 0-     Outside1-99- DMZ(Demilitarized Zone)100-Inside Highest Security level /interface can communicatge with lower security level and not vice versa.  Traffic from Higher Security Level to Lower Security LevelAllow all unless specified by a ACLIF NAT is enabled, ther must be a nat and global pair  Traffic from Lower Security Level to Higher Security Level:Drop all unless specified by an ACL.IF NAT is enabled, ther must be a static-NAT between a higher to lower level.  Traffic between interfaces with same Security Level:By default, don’t allow,Unless configured with  same-scurity-traffic-permit command.  Firewall config: STEP1: Configure a privileged level passwordSTEP2: Enable Command Line Management1.)create a username and password2.) ! Generate a 1024 bit RSA key pair for the firewall which is required for SSH3.) Specify the hosts allowed to connect to the security appliance.STEP3: Configure a Firewall Hostname To create a route ciscoasa(config)# route “interface-name” “destination-ip-address” “netmask” “gateway”’ ciscoasa(config)# route outside 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 100.1.1.1ß Default Routeciscoasa(config)# route inside 192.168.2.0 255.255.255.0 192.168.1.1ß Static Route  Dynamic NAT :From the pool of Ip address in the higher security interfafce as real ip maped with the pool of ip address in the mapped addrees pol for outbound communication. Dynamic PAT:Many to One: The many real IP will be mapped to a single public IP with the request on each real IP will be assigned with the Port number for the request. Static NATBidirectional communication:One-to-one address  mapping between real and mapped ip Lower level security interface can communicate with higher level inrerface with appropriate ACL configured.  the ASA firewall implements NAT in two ways:“Network object NAT”“Twice NAT”   NAT 0 or Identity Nat: Used for IPsec or VPN  ACL: The Access Control List, as the name implies, is a List of statements (called Access Control Entries) that permit or deny traffic from a source to a destination.  Access control lists (ACLs)can be used for two purposes on Cisco devices:to filter traffic, and toidentify traffic Each rule or line inan access-list provides a condition, eitherpermit ordeny: when filtering traffic, access lists are applied on interfaces.          Only one access listper interface,per protocol,per direction is allowed.  Two Golden Rules of Access Lists:1. If a bit is set to0 in a wild-card mask, the corresponding bit in theaddress must bematched exactly.2. If a bit is set to1 in a wild-card mask, the corresponding bit in theaddress canmatch any number.In other words, we “don’t care”what number it matches. Syntax:  The command format of an Access Control List is the following:ciscoasa(config)# access-list “access_list_name”[line line_number] [extended] {deny | permit} protocol “source_address”“mask” [operator source_port] “dest_address” “mask” [operator dest_port] Acess groupciscoasa(config)# access-group “access_list_name”[in|out] interface “interface_name”access-group “access_list_name” globalAccess group used to bind the access list with the interface  There are four types of object groups:Network: Used to group together hosts or subnets.Service: Used to group TCP or UDP port numbers.Protocol: Used to group protocols.ICMP-type: Used to group ICMP message types. ______________________ IDS firewall difference  Stateful/stateless firewallSteless: Packet filtering or static filteringIt just allow or deny the traffic based on ACL.It filters the traffic based on the below conditions.Source Ip/PortDestination Ip /PortProtocol Adv: easy to implement                       Disadv : Noway to  determine if the packet is part of an already existing connection.Applications use random port numbers and these will trouble operating because of this.IP spoofing attacks.  Statefull firewall: Dynamic filteringIT monitors the connection state. Avoid TCP based attacksNot only monitors the connection but also monitors the sequence numbersInside can start connect with outside and not vice versa.All this will be accomplished by a session table called STATE table.State table is dynamic, when the connection go quiet from inside, the outside cannot initiate the connection to the insider. STATE table.                Source and dest IPaddres/Port numbers                TCP and UDP flag settings                TCP sequence info. TCP packets outside an expected will be dropped Disadv: application layer attacks –Proxy server     Class A B C D - sub netting Difference between router and switch RouterSwitchUsed forConnecting two or more networksConnecting two or more nodes in the same network or different networkFunctionDirects data in a network. Passes data between home computers, and between computers and the modem.Allow to connect multiple device and port can be manage, Vlan can create security also can applyUsed in (LAN, MAN, WAN)LAN, WANLANTransmission TypeAt Initial Level Broadcast then Uni-cast & MulticastFirst broadcast; then unicast & multicast as needed.Data Transmission formPacketFrame (L2 Switch) Frame & Packet (L3 switch)LayerNetwork Layer (Layer 3 devices)Data Link Layer. Network switches operate at Layer 2 of the OSI model.Ports2/4/2008Switch is multi port Bridge. 24/48 portsDevice TypeNetworking deviceActive Device (With Software) & Networking deviceTableStore IP address in Routing table and maintain address at its own.Switches use content accessible memory CAM table which is typically accessed by ASIC (Application Specific integrated chips).Transmission ModeFull duplexHalf/Full duplexBroadcast DomainIn Router, every port has its own Broadcast domain.Switch has one broadcast domain [unless VLAN implemented]DefinitionA router is a networking device that connects a local network to other local networks. At the Distribution Layer of the network, routers direct traffic and perform other functions critical to efficient network operation.A network switch is a computer networking device that is used to connect many devices together on a computer network. A switch is considered more advanced than a hub because a switch will on send msg to device that needs or request itDevice CategoryIntelligent DeviceIntelligent DeviceBandwidth sharingBandwidth sharing is Dynamic (Enables either static or dynamic bandwidth sharing for modular cable interfaces. The default percent-value is 0. The percent-value range is 1-96.)There is no sharing port can be 10, 100, 1000 and 10000 Mbps individualSpeed1-10 Mbps (Wireless); 100 Mbps (Wired)10/100 Mbps, 1 GbpsRouting DecisionTake faster routing decisionsTake more time for complicated routing decisionsNAT (Network Address Translation)Routers can perform NATSwitches cannot perform NATFasterIn a different network environment (MAN/ WAN), a router is faster than an L3 switch.In a LAN environment, an L3 switch is faster than a router (built in switching hardware)FeaturesFirewall VPN Dynamic hadling of BandwidthPriority rt range On/Off setting of port VLAN Port mirroringExamplesLinksys WRT54GL Juniper MX & EX series Cisco 3900, 2900, 1900Alcatel's OmniSwitch 9000; Cisco Catalyst switch 4500 and 6500 (10 Gbps)Address used for data tramsmissionUses IP addressUses MAC address Arp table and reverseARPArp request is broadcast and arp reply is unicastARP table maintains IP address corresponding mac addressRArp request is broadcast and Rarp reply is unicastRARP request for corresponding mac address for a given IP address.  Inline/Passive in IDS SSH vs TLS Linux Ip configuration in Linuxifconfig interfacename netmask ip up/downhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SnACG4TDqJw dns iptables:Packet filterting application in linux based os. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XKfhOQWrUVw check service statusnetstat –a | grep ftp packet capture -wireshark tcpdump  Project: Challenges in Manet :Energy centric,Dynamic Topology,Less computation power, AttacksWormhole- advertise valid path and drop the packetsGreyhole- group of nodes advertises itself as a valid path and send the path to the destination after a long time. -> Batery consumption.Blackhole- Advertises itself as a valid path and sends a fake information to the destination. Model:Trust proctor= Energy+direct trust+recommendation trustTrust handler =Alarm table,friend table, trust evaluatorCA-Certificate authority     TCPdump :_________-h version checking-d identify the available interface-i interface-c packet capture size-s packet bytes size-w to capture files-r to read the captured files-v verbose mode-t time display-q –quantity of content display  Capture the packets in the network and analyze the packetDetails abt the packet can either displayed on the screen or can be saved as a pcap fileLibpcap library used for packet filtering. Version checking Tcpdump –h To identify the available interface like eth0 or eth1 like datTcpdump –d To capture packet using any option -lTcpdump –I any Tcpdump wont stop capturing once start unles interpret by a user command - >ctrl+z To capture specified number of packets use below -cTcpdump –I any –c 5The above command will capture 5 packets  To display the ip address and port numbers in the result  use below -nSudo tcpdump –I any –c 5 –n Capture size of a packet can be altered by using –s Sudo tcpdump –I any –c 5 –n –s 96  #capture 96 byteSudo tcpdump –I any –c 5 –n –s 0 #maximum size of 65535  To capture one direction of traffic: Sudo tcpdump –I any –c 20  -n tcp and dst port 49952 –t A single packet looks like the below:IP sourceIP.port > destinationip.port flags[TCP] acq/seq , window , length To save the capture for future analysis –wSudo tcpdump –I any –w capture.pcap While capturing packet in the file , usually we cant see how many packets are captured in the CLI, to address this , we will use –v to display number of records got captured in the fileSudo tcpdump –I any –w capture.pcap –v To Read the capture files.Sudo tcpdump –n –r capture.pcap If the file is large, it will directly go the eof , to enable scrolling use | lessSudo tcpdump –n –r capture.pcap |less (to scroll up and down)  TCPdump filtersFilters are used to isolate the traffic To capture packet on particular hostTcpdump –I eth1 –n host 10.0.0.1 –c 5  To see one direction traffic:That s packet capture only from the sender srcTcpdump –I eth1 –n src host 10.0.0.1 –c   Traffic between 2 ip ->source and destination – by using and operator Tcpdump –I eth1 –n src host 10.0.0.1  and host 10.0.0.3  –c 5  To capture packet only on specific portTcpdump –I eth1 –n src host 10.0.0.1  and host 10.0.0.3 and port 80 Compound expression : to show traffic for port 80 or port 443 on the sending host Tcpdump –I eth0 –n “host 192.168.1.1 \> and (port 80 or port 443)” To capture ipv6 packetsTcpdump –I etho 0 ip6 To ping ipv6 addressPing6 IPV6 Verbose outputTcpdump –I eth0 –v Minimal quantity of outputTcpdump –I eth0 –q Timestamp -t -ttt-ttttt   

Good Read:

**Basics of Networking**
> https://commotionwireless.net/docs/cck/networking/learn-networking-basics/
> https://commotionwireless.net/docs/cck/networking/learn-networking-basics/
> https://www.slideshare.net/variwalia/basic-to-advanced-networking-tutorials
> https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/small-business/resource-center/networking/networking-basics.html
> http://www.penguintutor.com/linux/basic-network-reference
> https://www.utilizewindows.com/list-of-common-network-port-numbers/
> https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/an-introduction-to-learning-and-using-dns-records–cms-24704
> https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-networking-terminology-interfaces-and-protocols
